CART263 ASSIGNMENT 2

James Bridle’s  "Something is weird on the Internet" explores the frightening and perhaps dangerous tendency towards the automation of children’s’ Youtube content. Reading Bridle’s articles, I found myself agreeing with some of his points, such as the fact that the Youtube algorithm promotes and supports this bizzare content. However, something about the tone of the article also irked me. While acknlowedging the structural influence of the Youtube platform, Bridle characterizes the cause of the content as “someone” and “something” - language that evokes a clear-cut villain, some Scooby Doo figure hiding in the suggestions bar. Bridle is drawing from a justified but personal fear to write this article, which would be attenuated should he ‘pull of the mask’ and reveal those at fault. 

But is it really possible to assign blame or responsibility in a way that can truly make us feel more secure? In my piece WELCOME TO THE INCUBATOR, I try to challenge this assumption. The central feelings that I wanted to evoke were those of confusion and frustration, and a certain amount of disempowerment - the feeling of drowning in information and strange colorful rabbit holes and not being sure whether it’s because of the algorithm or because of yourself. 

There are several parts to this project:
The user can move and flip through a carousel of kids YT clips. Flipping quickly evokes the seemingly infinite content on the platform. Some of the clips are eerie, some are not. 
Clicking on a particular clip triggers a vocal message: an authorative voice asks the user a questions. These abstract aphorisms aim to circle the theme of surveillance, consumerism and care, without provoking a specific answer. The user must answer in order to return to the carousel
Clicking on an “enable comment” button triggers randomly positioned popups with comments drawn from real kids’ videos. These comments show a variety of perspectives that range from concerned to meme’d out. 

The best part of this project is the carousel and learning about 3d-transform CSS to build it (thank you Sabine!!). The worst part is the rest of the aesthetic (which I understand is not graded and may or may not offer an appealingly colorful web DIY je-ne-sais-quoi). 

Honestly, I finished this project listening to the Super Tuesday live coverage, feeling a mix of powerlessness, of not-understanding of the rules of American government, and of strange dread. I’d like to think that this energy reflects into a lot of the media we (I?) consume, and the spaces we inhabit, and even the projects we code. If I put this here, what happens? If I do this, and this? The internet facilitates this state of unknowing, making ideas and movements hard to track and to predict. There are many things that we don’t understand - things are too complex and too intricate to be certain anymore. So yes, something is weird on the internet, but maybe something has always been weird and is just getting weirder. But maybe that's just something people say when they're tired and frustrated and feel powerless to create any change in the world around them. 
